Families and neighborhoods are like plants. If they are nourished with time and attention, they thrive. A Confucian way of life aimed at achieving harmonious community, a Socratic way of life focused on realizing rational autonomy, and a Buddhist way of life focused on cultivating attentive and responsive virtuosity. What matters most in leading good lives is not what we think or know but how we act and with what kinds of sentiment. As long as we are tangled in states of mental, emotional, or physical agitation, as long as we are easily distracted and able to pay attention only fleetingly or by force of habit, and as long as we are caught up in obsessive reflection and calculation, we will fail to be present as needed to perceive and alleviate the conditions and causes of conflict, trouble, and suffering. Enacting commitment to karmic transformation and liberation from conflict, trouble, and suffering is simply not possible in the absence of calm concentration and clarity. They improvise ways of drawing others ever more
fully into an “infinite game” that is played for the purpose of sustaining and continually improving the quality of play. In the context of Buddhist practice, however, cultivating śīla ultimately involves us in discerning—moment by
moment and from one situation to the next—which relational interventions will be superlative in alleviating conflict, trouble, and suffering and which will not. In Buddhist contexts, vīrya specifically connotes heroically enthusiastic and vigorously embodied commitment to advancing along the path of becoming an enlightening presence. Taken together, these techniques can be seen as a system of meditative training directed toward becoming so wholly—that is, undistractedly and undividedly—present that, in seeing, there is only seeing; in hearing, only hearing; in feeling sadness or grief, only sadness or grief. Dhyāna has also been traditionally described as a sequential process of attention training that begins by
becoming aware, first, of the initiation of attention (vitarka) and, then, of how attention is sustained (vicāra). Perfecting poised attentiveness is enacting readiness for appreciative and contributory virtuosity in the midst
of any and all circumstances.
